Edit and organize AOT doc (#32028)
angular/angular: aio/content/guide/aot-compiler.md

> # The Ahead-of-Time (AoT) compiler

Author: No, just wanted to be consistent. I'll change it back.

The Angular compiler extracts the metadata _once_ and generates a _factory_ for `TypicalComponent`.
When it needs to create a `TypicalComponent` instance, Angular calls the factory, which produces a new visual element, bound to a new instance of the component class with its injected dependency.

### Compilation phases

There are three phases of AoT compilation.
* Phase 1 is *code analysis*.
   In this phase, the TypeScript compiler and  *AoT collector* create a representation of the source. The collector does not attempt to interpret the metadata it collects. It represents the metadata as best it can and records errors when it detects a metadata syntax violation.

* Phase 2 is *code generation*.

>    In this phase, the compiler's `StaticReflector` interprets the `.metadata.json` file created in phase 1, and places restrictions on what it interprets.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   In this phase, the compiler's `StaticReflector` interprets the metadata collected in phase 1, performs additional validation of the metadata, and throws an error if it detects a metadata restriction violation.
```

Reviewer: metadata.json is used only if you are compiling against libraries, so more generic term "metadata" is better.

Reviewer 2: 👍

> * Phase 3 is *validation*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Phase 3 is *template type checking*.
```

export class TypicalModule {}
```

This allows the compiler to generate a reference to `ɵ0` in the factory without having to know what the value of `ɵ0` contains.

The compiler does the rewriting during the emit of the `.js` file.
It does not, however, rewrite the `.d.ts` file, so TypeScript doesn't recognize it as being an export. and it does not interfere with the ES module's exported API.

{@a binding-expression-validation}

> ## Phase 3: Binding expression validation

Reviewer: "template type checking" as I suggested above? in either case the name for this phase should be the same as in the overview above.
